# DISC-seq
Heterogeneity among cell subpopulations is a pervasive phenomenon, especially in cancer cells, in which heterogeneity is a key factor contributing to drug resistance and treatment failure. Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) techniques have emerged as potent tools for dissecting this cellular heterogeneity. However, current scRNA-seq methods cannot link endogenous gene expression profiles with eventual outcomes of drug treatment, impeding the identification of essential pathways behind drug response heterogeneity. Here, we introduce Damage Identification in Single-Cell RNA sequencing (DISC-seq), a method that quantitatively detects cell damage at the single-cell level. Compatible with standard scRNA-seq techniques, DISC-seq can quantify the progression of cell damage while concurrently capturing gene expression dynamics. Utilizing DISC-seq, we identified the molecular programs underlying variations in drug response and stress status among cultured cancer cell lines, as well as in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) derived from clinical pediatric hematology patients. We demonstrated that DISC-seq can uncover key regulatory pathways underlying drug response heterogeneity both within and across cell types, facilitating the discovery of precision medicine strategies.

This repo contains essential scripts used for implementation of DISC-seq. We used MGI DNBelab C-series High-throughput Single-cell RNA Library Preparation Kit V3.0 for scRNA-seq library preparation and sequencing. With modification, these scripts can be applied for other conventional scRNA-seq libraries and sequencing data.

* Script *1.annx-r2-bgilist-1id2CB.sh* is used for demultiplexing of DISC-seq barcodes from raw sequencing data.
* Optioanlly, if CASB sample pooling is used, script *2.CASB-r2-bgilist-1id2cB.sh* is used for demultiplexing of CASB barcodes from raw sequencing data.
* Script *endo-merged-chip4.ipynb* is used for integrating DISC-seq and CASB information with endogenous expression matrix.
